
Alicia McCarthy
71 Jackson St. Apt 209
Lowell, MA 01852
C: 978.289.7736


Education:
University of Massachusetts, Lowell, MA 		                                                                                    May 2017                                                                           Master of Science –Occupational and Environmental Hygiene

Bachelor of Science – Environmental Health 	                                                                                                May 2015 

Professional Experience:
Toxics Use Reduction Institute Laboratory (TURI), Lowell, MA	                                          June 2017 – Present                                                                                         
Laboratory Manager 
Work with a variety of industries and perform site visits to evaluate current chemistries being utilized for performance, cost, and environmental health and safety.
Communicate and connect vendors with current clients to identify new chemistries and equipment.
Assist the lab director with daily laboratory activities and hold weekly meetings to improve laboratory performance. 
Manage 20-25 undergraduate and graduate students; review reports and provide guidance with performance testing. 
Organize and manage continuing education conference sessions and present at related conferences. 
Communicate experiment findings through technical reports, case studies, and presentations. 
Advance the TURI lab's visibility through social media, identifying outreach opportunities, and collaborate with other departments and the greater community.
Trained in Toxic Use Reduction Planning; perform process evaluations, materials accounting, and economic feasibility. 

Beyond Benign, Wilmington, MA	                                                                             September 2016 – May 2017
Program Manager of the Green Chemistry Commitment (GCC)
Managed day-to-day program growth including engagement with the advisory committee and working groups.
Maintained contact and promoted collaborations between like-minded institutes with GCC signing institutions and partnering organizations. 
Coordinated webinars, meetings, conferences, workshops, and other program tasks.
Utilized Salesforce to organize contacts and identify key stakeholders for future opportunities.   
Prepared communications for the GCC program (i.e., newsletters, abstract submissions, website material, social media, email communications, annual reports, flyers, presentations, etc.).
Traveled to related national conferences to present, organize workshops, and recruit signatories for the Green Chemistry Commitment. 

European Trade Union Institute (ETUI), Brussels, Belgium	                                   May 2016 – August 2016                                                                       
Summer Research Intern
Presented preliminary findings at ETUI’s summer conference to industry, unions, lobbyists, and public health officials to gain feedback and find other potential resources.
					
Toxics Use Reduction Institute Laboratory (TURI), Lowell, MA	                             September 2014 – May 2017
Research Assistant/ Voluntary Chemical Hygiene Officer (CHO) 
Presented at the Society for Chemical Hazard Communication Spring Conference (2016) on “Critical Evaluation of GreenScreen® Benchmark 1 Chemicals for Structural Alerts”. 
					
University of Massachusetts, Lowell, MA	                                                                                            2012 – 2014
Trip Leader, Outdoor Adventure Program, Lowell, MA 
Planned  trip itineraries; budgeted for meal plans and materials; booked necessary passes and accommodations.
Led outdoor trips and a week-long backpacking trip in the  Grand Canyon. 

Awards/Grants:
EPA P3 Phase I Research Grant (2016-2017)
Most Valuable Student Pollution Prevention Award (2016)
Volicer Internship Award (2015)